
Sign in to the Azure portal.

Navigate to Defender for Cloud > Environment settings.

Select Add environment > Amazon Web Services.

Connecting an AWS account to an Azure subscription.

Enter the details of the AWS account, including the location where you'll store the connector resource.

Step 1 of the add AWS account wizard: Enter the account details.

(Optional) Select Management account to create a connector to a management account. Connectors will be created for each member account discovered under the provided management account. Auto-provisioning will be enabled for all of the newly onboarded accounts.

Select Next: Select plans.

 Note

Each plan has its own requirements for permissions, and might incur charges.

The select plans tab is where you choose which Defender for Cloud capabilities to enable for this AWS account.

 Important

To present the current status of your recommendations, the CSPM plan queries the AWS resource APIs several times a day. These read-only API calls incur no charges, but they are registered in CloudTrail if you've enabled a trail for read events. As explained in the AWS documentation, there are no additional charges for keeping one trail. If you're exporting the data out of AWS (for example, to an external SIEM), this increased volume of calls might also increase ingestion costs. In such cases, We recommend filtering out the read-only calls from the Defender for Cloud user or role ARN: arn:aws:iam::[accountId]:role/CspmMonitorAws (this is the default role name, confirm the role name configured on your account).

By default the Servers plan is set to On. This is necessary to extend Defender for server's coverage to your AWS EC2. Ensure you've fulfilled the network requirements for Azure Arc.

(Optional) Select Configure, to edit the configuration as required.
By default the Containers plan is set to On. This is necessary to have Defender for Containers protect your AWS EKS clusters. Ensure you've fulfilled the network requirements for the Defender for Containers plan.

 Note

Azure Arc-enabled Kubernetes, the Defender Arc extension, and the Azure Policy Arc extension should be installed. Use the dedicated Defender for Cloud recommendations to deploy the extensions (and Arc, if necessary) as explained in Protect Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service clusters.

(Optional) Select Configure, to edit the configuration as required. If you choose to disable this configuration, the Threat detection (control plane) feature will be disabled. Learn more about the feature availability.
By default the Databases plan is set to On. This is necessary to extend Defender for SQL's coverage to your AWS EC2 and RDS Custom for SQL Server.

(Optional) Select Configure, to edit the configuration as required. We recommend you leave it set to the default configuration.
Select Next: Configure access.

Download the CloudFormation template.

Using the downloaded CloudFormation template, create the stack in AWS as instructed on screen. If you're onboarding a management account, you'll need to run the CloudFormation template both as Stack and as StackSet. Connectors will be created for the member accounts up to 24 hours after the onboarding.

Select Next: Review and generate.

Select Create.

Defender for Cloud will immediately start scanning your AWS resources and you'll see security recommendations within a few hours. For a reference list of all the recommendations Defender for Cloud can provide for AWS resources, see Security recommendations for AWS resources - a reference guide.

