Open the Microsoft Edge browser or open a new tab if already open.

In the Edge browser, navigate to the Azure portal at (https://portal.azure.com).

In the Sign in dialog box, copy, and paste in the tenant Email account for the admin username provided by your lab hosting provider and then select Next.

In the Enter password dialog box, copy, and paste in the admin's tenant password provided by your lab hosting provider and then select Sign in.

In the Search bar of the Azure portal, type Subscription, then select Subscriptions.

If the "Azure Pass - Sponsorship" subscription is shown (or equivalent name in your selected language), proceed to Task #2. Otherwise, ask your instructor on how to create the Azure subscription with your tenant admin user credentials. Note: The subscription creation process could take up to 10 minutes.

Important: These labs have been designed to use less than USD $10 of Azure services during the class.

Task 2: Create a Log Analytics Workspace
In this task, you will create a Log Analytics workspace for use with Microsoft Defender for Cloud.

In the Search bar of the Azure portal, type Log Analytics workspaces, then select the same service name.

Select +Create from the command bar.

Select Create new for the Resource group.

Enter RG-Defender and select Ok.

For the Name, enter something unique like: uniquenameDefender.

Select Review + Create.

Once the workspace validation has passed, select Create. Wait for the new workspace to be provisioned, this may take a few minutes.

Task 3: Enable Microsoft Defender for Cloud
In this task, you will enable and configure Microsoft Defender for Cloud.

In the Search bar of the Azure portal, type Defender, then select Microsoft Defender for Cloud.

On the Getting started page, under the Upgrade tab, make sure your subscription is selected, and then select the Upgrade button at the bottom of the page. Wait for the Trial started notification to appear, it takes about 2 minutes. Hint: You can click the bell button on the top bar to review your Azure portal notifications.

In the left menu for Microsoft Defender for Cloud, under the Management, select Environment settings.

Select the "Azure Pass - Sponsorship" subscription (or equivalent name in your Language).

Review the Azure reources that are now protected with the Defender for Cloud plans.

Select Auto provisioning from the Settings area.

Review the Auto provisioning - Extensions. Confirm that Log Analytics agent/Azure Monitor agent is Off.

Close the settings page by selecting the 'x' on the upper right of the page to go back to the Environment settings again and select the '>' on the left of your subscription.

Select the Log analytics workspace you created earlier uniquenameDefender to review the available options and pricing.

Select Enable all Microsoft Defender for Cloud plans and select Save. Wait for the "Microsoft Defender plan for workspace uniquenameDefender were saved successfully!" notification to appear.

Note: If the page is not being displayed, refresh your Edge browser and try again.

Task 4: Install Azure Arc on an On-Premises Server
In this task, you will install Azure Arc on an on-premises server to make onboarding easier.

Important: The next steps are done in a different machine than the one you were previously working. Look for the Virtual Machine name references.

Log in to WINServer virtual machine as Administrator with the password: Passw0rd! if required.

Open the Microsoft Edge browser and navigate to the Azure portal at https://portal.azure.com.

In the Sign in dialog box, copy, and paste in the Tenant Email account provided by your lab hosting provider and then select Next.

In the Enter password dialog box, copy and paste in the Tenant Password provided by your lab hosting provider and then select Sign in.

In the Search bar of the Azure portal, type Arc, then select Azure Arc.

In the navigation pane under Infrastructure select Servers

Select + Add.

Select Generate script in the "Add a single server" section.

Select Next to get to the Resource details tab.

Select the Resource group you created earlier. Hint: RG-Defender

Note: If you haven't already created a resource group, open another tab and create the resource group and start over.

Review the Server details and Connectivity method options. Keep the default values and select Next to get to the Tags tab.

Select Next to get to the Download and run script tab.

Scroll down and select the Download button. Hint: if your browser blocks the download, take action in the browser to allow it. In Edge Browser, select the ellipsis button (...) if needed and then select Keep.

Right-click the Windows Start button and select Windows PowerShell (Admin).

Enter Administrator for "Username" and Passw0rd! for "Password" if you get a UAC prompt.

Enter: cd C:\Users\Administrator\Downloads

Important: If you do not have this directory, most likely means that you are in the wrong machine. Go back to the begining of Task 4 and change to WINServer and start over.

Type Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted and press enter.

Enter A for Yes to All and press enter.

Type .\OnboardingScript.ps1 and press enter.

Important: If you get the error "The term .\OnboardingScript.ps1 is not recognized...", make sure you are doing the steps for Task 4 in the WINServer virtual machine. Other issue might be that the name of the file changed due to multiple downloads, search for ".\OnboardingScript (1).ps1" or other file numbers in the running directory.

Enter R to Run once and press enter (this may take a couple minutes).

The setup process will open a new Edge browser tab to authenticate the Azure Arc agent. Select your admin account, wait for the message "Authentication complete" and then go back to the Windows PowerShell window.

When the installation finishes, go back to the Azure portal page where you downloaded the script and select Close. Close the Add servers with Azure Arc to go back to the Azure Arc Servers page.

Select Refresh until WINServer server name appears and the Status is Connected.

Note: This could take a couple of minutes.

Task 5: Protect an On-Premises Server
In this task, you will manually install the required agent on the WINServer virtual machine.

Go to Microsoft Defender for Cloud and select the Getting Started page.

Select the Get Started tab.

Scroll down and select Configure under the Add non-Azure servers section.

Select Upgrade next to the workspace you created earlier. This might take a few minutes, wait until you see the notification "Azure Defender plan for workspace uniquenameDefender were saved successfully!".

Select + Add Servers next to the workspace you created earlier.

Select Log Analytics agent instructions

Select Download Windows Agent (64 bit).

Select Open file to run the downloaded MMASetup-AMD64.exe file.

Select Next until the wizard page for Agent Setup Options appears; select Connect the Agent to Azure Log Analytics (OMS), then select Next.

Copy and paste the Workspace ID and Primary Key value in the Workspace Key text box from the Azure portal into the wizard page fields as appropriate and select Next.

Continue with the Install. Select Finish when complete.

Go to the "Microsoft Defender for Cloud" portal and select Inventory.

The WINServer virtual machine will appear after at least 5 minutes. You may have to select Refresh to see it. Hint: If you see the number 1 under Total resources remove the filter to show the WINServer virtual machine.

You can move on to the next lab and return later to review the Inventory section of Microsoft Defender for Cloud.
